Timeline:
---------

Events marked with an asterisk are on the main timeline there and included for
reference.
Events marked with a cross are specific to TEG.

40 YW    * Action of The Scepter of Fire takes place. Haldric II is informed that
           the Scepter was both completed and lost in the year 40.
         * With the death of Thursagan, the Runemaster, all runemasters are killed
           and the art of runesmithing is lost for several centuries.

~50 YW   † The dwarf Kal Torlat founds a settlement; his followers name it after
           him. Thus, any mentions of "the dwarves at Kal Torlat" later are
           are referring to this settlement.
           [TODO: more backstory for Kal Torlat the dwarf]
	      
~200 YW  † The hammer of Thursagan is found for the first time by the dwarves of
           Kal Torlat. Some of the dwarves at Kal Torlat don't understand its
           powers without Thursagan's book and get corrupted. Friendship with the
           elves degrades. An Ancient Lich is unleashed from the deep earth
           because the dwarves were digging too greedily; Kal Torlat becomes a
           haunted place. The Kal Torlat dwarves flee; their descendents are
           living at Kal Kartha in 515 YW. The fate of the hammer remains unclear,
           but it stays with a corrupted Lich-dwarf who joins the Ancient Lich.
	      
442 YW  * Delfador, later called "the Great", is born.

444 YW  † Birth of Hamel.

450 YW  * Prince Arand is born.

478 YW  * Garard II marries Asheviere.
        * Garard issues the Edict of the Scepter, providing that the crown shall
          settle after his death on whichever member of the royal family
          successfully retrieves it from the Caverns of Flame.

500 YW  * Prince Konrad is born, the youngest of several sons of Prince Arand.
        * Wesnoth and the orcs of the north go to war. 

501 YW  * Prince Eldred kills Garard II at Abez and is in turn killed by Delfador.
          Usurpation of Asheviere begins.
        * While traveling through Wesnoth, Elf Lady Parandra finds an orphaned
          human child.
        * (HttT spoilers) Parandra and Delfador agree to give the orphan the
          identity of Prince Konrad.

515 YW  † Start of TEG	   
	   
517 YW  * Start of HttT
	   
518 YW  * End of HttT

        † TEG:
          The Hammer of Thursagan is recovered from the corrupted dwarf-Lich;
          the Ancient Lich is killed; Kal Torlat is free from enemies again.
          The Hammer of Thursagan goes to Karrag from Kal Kartha, because he is
          a descendant of the old runesmiths and studies their runelore.
          Karrag unfortunately later gets corrupted by the hammer, since he
          doesn't have Thursagan's book that explains its powers. As Relgorn
          retires, Hamel becomes Lord of Knalga and continues his efforts to find
          Thursagan's book

534 YW  * NR takes place.
-535 YW * NR ends.

550 YW  * Lord Hamel of Knalga sends an expedition to Kal Kartha to determine the
          fate of the Hammer of Thursagan (The Hammer of Thursagan takes place in
          late 550 YW to early 551 YW.).
        * Dwarves at Knalga and elsewhere begin to reclaim the lost art of
          runesmithing. 
